Chapter 3: The New School


In the morning Mother and Daddy got ready for work. She cooked in a restaurant. He was a guard in a bank.

Mother asked Gregory, “Do you want your uncle to go with you to the new school?”

Gregory shook his head.

“Don’t you want someone to help you get started?” she asked.

“No,” he said. “I’ve done it before.”

He went to school. He found the office. A woman there sent him to Room 3, and that was his room.

His teacher was Miss Perry. She said to the class, “We have a new boy in our room. His name is Gregory.”

She asked what school he had come from.

“North Lake,” he said.

“Is that here in the city?” she asked.

“Yes. It’s a big school,” he told her. “It’s bigger than this.”

He liked Miss Perry. He thought he was going to like Dover Street School. He began to learn the names of the boys and girls.

At noon a boy named Vance came up to him on the playground. Vance was the biggest boy in Room 3.

“Did you say you went to North Lake School?” he asked.

“Yes,” said Gregory.

“What made you say it’s a big school?” asked Vance.

Some other boys and girls had come by. They were listening.

“It is a big school,” said Gregory.

“No, it isn’t,” said Vance. “I’ve been there, and it’s not as big as this.”

“It looks bigger,” said Gregory.

“Well, it isn’t,” said Vance. “You like to brag, don’t you?”

“I wasn’t bragging,” said Gregory. “I just said it was bigger. I didn’t say it was better.”

He stopped. No one was listening. Vance and the others had gone away.





After school he walked home alone. Uncle Max was there, watching television.

Gregory went into the room that was his and his uncle’s. There were pictures on the walls that he had never seen before. They were big red and black posters of race cars. Gregory’s pictures were nowhere in sight.

He went back to the front room. “Where are my pictures?” he asked.

The television was turned up loud. Uncle Max turned it down. “What did you say?”

“My pictures,” said Gregory. “Where are they?”

“They’re still there,” said his uncle.

“You put your posters over my pictures?” said Gregory.

“Don’t you like my posters?” asked Uncle Max.

“No, I don’t!” said Gregory.

“That’s too bad,” said Uncle Max, and he turned the television up again.

Gregory was angry. He wanted to go into the bedroom and tear down all his uncle’s posters.

But that would only make things worse.

He went out back and tried to find something to do. He shook the gate in the wall. There was a wire that held it shut.

He began to work with the wire. He worked until it came loose. He opened the gate.

On the other side was part of a building. The building had burned. One room was left. It had three walls and no roof, and there were bricks all over the floor. It looked as if no one had been there for a long time.





Gregory went in. He walked through spider webs and dust.

He piled up some bricks and sat down on them. He leaned back and looked at the sky. It was peaceful here, and he began to feel better. He was not quite so angry now.


Chapter 4: The Burned Building


In Room 3 there was a girl named Ivy. She was small, with long black hair. She was shy. When she talked, it wasn’t much more than a whisper.

There was something wonderful about her. Gregory wasn’t sure what it was, but it was there in her face and the way she held her head. It was in the pictures she made.

Three times a week they had art class in Room 3.

Once Gregory said to Ivy, “Your pictures are good.”

She looked at a picture he had just made. It was a castle. He didn’t much like it. He had wanted to put a flag on top, but he had made the castle too big. There was no room for the flag.

Ivy said nothing at all, but she touched the picture. He wasn’t sure whether she liked it or not.

Since his first day, things hadn’t gone very well for him at the new school. He hoped they would get better, but after a week they were about the same. He thought Miss Perry liked him. He didn’t know about the others.

Things weren’t going so well at home, either. Uncle Max was always there. He was always watching television. Or going plink, plink, plink on the guitar. Or sleeping in their room.

It was more his room than Gregory’s, but now Gregory didn’t mind so much. He had a place of his own. Every day after school he went out to the burned building.

“Can’t you find somewhere else to play?” asked Mother. “You’ll get all dirty out there.”





“I’m cleaning it up,” he said.

When he swept the floor, he found little pieces of something white. He showed one of them to Mother. “It looks like chalk,” he said.

“It is chalk,” she said.

A few days later she told him, “I found out about the burned building. The woman next door told me. It used to be a chalk factory. A man made chalk and tried to sell it to schools, but he didn’t do very well. The place caught fire and burned, and the man just went away and left it.”

Gregory kept sweeping up more chalk. One day he found two wooden boxes under a pile of bricks. They were packed with sticks of chalk.

The boxes were burned and broken. Some of the chalk was burned and broken, too, but some of it was clean and white.

The walls of the burned building were black from the fire. He tried making chalk pictures on them. He made a ship and an alligator.

Mother came to the gate and called him to dinner.

“Do you want to see what I made?” he asked.

“Some other time,” she said. “Your dinner is getting cold.”